a lot of people think that the only time
you really need to present well is when
you have a big stage talk and you make
the big investment in the script the big
investment in the contrasting story I'll
tell you a dirty little secret I can get
my husband to do chores for me on the
weekends with a real quick what is what
could be new Bliss so the ability to
just have that contrast as a framework
in your brain during a meeting on a
phone call any moment of influence like
literally it works it works in any
format
welcome to Lenny's podcast where I
interview world-class product leaders
and growth experts to learn from their
hard-won experiences building and
growing today's most successful products
today my guest is Nancy Duarte Nancy is
the type of guest that I never imagined
being able to get on this podcast but I
am so happy that it happened Nancy is a
best-selling author speaker and CEO of
Duarte Incorporated which has helped
create over 250 000 presentations for
the world's most influential Business
Leaders Brands and institutions
including Apple head Google the World
Bank and famously Al Gore on his
Inconvenient Truth presentation in our
conversation Nancy shares a ton of
tactical advice for how to improve your
own presentations how to tell better
stories how to lay out convincing
arguments how to reduce your nerves when
you present and even a simple
communication framework to improve your
relationship Dynamics I had such a good
time chatting with Nancy and I'm sure
you will love this episode with that I
bring you Nancy Duarte after a short
word from our sponsors
this episode is brought to you by
Microsoft Clarity a free easy to use
tool that captures how real people are
actually using your site you can watch
live session replays to discover where
users are breezing through your phone
where they struggle you can view instant
heat maps to see what parts your page
users are engaging with and what content
they're ignoring you can also pinpoint
what's bothering your users with really
cool frustration metrics like rage
clicks and dead clicks and much more if
you listen to this podcast you know how
often we talk about the importance of
knowing your users and by seeing how
users truly experience your product you
can identify product opportunities
conversion wins and find big gaps
between how you imagine people using
your product and how they actually use
it Microsoft Clarity makes it all
possible with a simple yet incredibly
powerful set of features they'll be
blown away by how easy Clarity is to use
and it's completely free forever you
will never run into traffic limits or be
forced to upgrade to a paid version it
also works across both apps and website
sites stop guessing get clarity check
out Clarity at clarity.microsoft.com
are you hiring or on the flip side are
you looking for a new opportunity well
either way check out lennysjobs.com
Talent
if you're a hiring manager you can sign
up and get access to hundreds of hand
created people who are open to New
Opportunities thousands of people apply
to join this Collective and I personally
review and accept just about 10 of them
you won't find a better place to hire
product managers and growth leaders join
almost 100 other companies who are
actively hiring through this Collective
and if you're looking around for a newer
opportunity actively or passively join
the collective it's free you can be
anonymous and you can even hide yourself
from specific companies you can also
leave anytime and you'll only hear from
companies that you want to hear from
check out lennysjobs.com Talent
Nancy welcome to the podcast thank you
for having me Lenny how many
presentations have you helped craft at
this point both directly and indirectly
that's a great question i i people know
I'll like take a swag at data and
pretend it's real so I had a president
who took us a whack at that number in it
was 2014 and he said at that time it was
225 000 and that was like almost 10
years ago so I don't even I can't even I
can't even tell you I mean it's
we stopped tracking so but it's a lot I
mean in 35 years we have thousands of
projects we open and each sometimes has
two to 100 presentations in it so it'd
be hard to tell 200
000. he said 250 000 but that was that
was 10 years ago and I didn't do the
math so when my team questioned it I'm
like oh Dan did the math they're like oh
then it's accurate because they thought
I was just making up this number I'm
like no no we actually went in and
looked so okay I was not expecting it to
be that large that's insane it's so
funny because I have the whole history
of the Silicon Valley in a way right
it's like every little startup and then
they grew to massive Brands like Cisco
and you could actually look at the rise
and fall of all these companies and then
I actually have all the decks I still
have a lot of these archives so it's
it's uh I could actually verify that
number exactly
okay well this next question is going to
be extra hard then of all the
presentations you've worked on which one
stands out to you as the most memorable
or most impactful I mean it has to be Al
Gore's Inconvenient Truth right and it
kind of Hit the world in a season where
uh nobody really knew or had an example
of a really well done presentation so it
came out before TED Talks were even out
um on the web and so people had never
seen someone tell a data story and stand
in front of data and the scale in 90
foot screen but we had worked with him
for five years before An Inconvenient
Truth like people think he went from you
know vice president to this presenter
and I didn't work with him I let my team
work with him so they were the ones
jetting around jumping backstage at
Oprah like they they loved it like it
was a real peak season but the thing
actually that was most memorable is you
know we work with these you know
20-some-year-old CEOs here in the valley
and and they tend to show up and act
like they know better you know than
someone who's been doing this for so so
long and what was so interesting about
this large figure
politician you know Communicator is we
the team would sit in a room and say hey
we think you need to do this this way we
think you needed to convey it this way
we think it should be visualized this
way or whatever it was we were proposing
and he would literally pause and like
touch his chin and really think and
really consider that we might actually
be experts and more times than not he
would adopt the way we said it should be
done and so I think as like the the
customer who actually probably had some
of the most power in the whole world to
thoughtfully defer to us as experts was
delightful customer and you know
Consulting experience I mean I remember
when they called me to say it was going
to become a movie and that it had gotten
funded and I started to get the
information they wanted us to do a lot
of work to get it movie ready and I'll
never forget I I said wow that's going
to be a lot work we'd have to do for
free and who's gonna go see a movie
about a slideshow anyway
literally what I said and so yeah I just
didn't believe it would become what it
became so the whole process was amazing
did you expect the impact of what
happened after that presentation or is
that was it just like oh we got this one
job we got to do let's just get through
it and then well we've been doing it for
five years I think the strategy whether
it was intentional or a lot or not I
don't know so he would go City to City
to City to see he was traveling for five
years seating like planting seeds for a
Groundswell and he went into the you
know he would go to the Stanford campus
invite you know the Bay Area Elite and
it was always private and it was always
VIP and so he he did a really good job
for five years traveling traveling
traveling traveling and and really
really
delivering that talk and I think that
created a desire I don't know that it
would have gotten that much traction I
don't know if he hadn't if people
already didn't know about the
presentation and hadn't already seen the
presentation and they brought their
friends to the movie is how I kind of
pick picture at least that part
happening and he was generous Lenny I
mean at the end when he traveled around
for those five years at the end he
always had a slide with our name on it
and would thank us if you're in the
audience I mean Super I mean and paid
you know mostly paid for what we did
that we did you know give a lot of our
own time but yeah super generous and and
yeah a movie became what it was it was a
surprise a bit of a surprise
but it was good the movie was good so
it was good it also makes me uh think
about a pattern that I often see of it
wasn't just like one presentation that
changed everything it was you said five
years of kind of prep ahead of that and
it's you always see these like wow
overnight success stories and you always
find okay it wasn't actually that yeah
and he did a good job after once it got
traction we built like a whole training
program where I could fly people out to
his place in Tennessee and start to
train people so it almost became like a
train the trainer and he could sanction
you as a Ambassador for it so this is
the way the whole thing kind of unfolded
and scaled and then got traction was
lovely
speaking of impressive clients I only
learned this recently but Apple has been
a client of yours since the day you were
founded as an organization is that right
yeah it was yeah okay how did you land
that initially and then also just what
have you learned from that experience
that's informed your approach to
presentation design communication and
and how you work with clients I love
that question so yeah I had like a real
job I was working my real job and my
husband had bought a Mac and he's like I
think this is a business I think it
could be a real business and he was an
illustrator uh wasn't a designer but he
had been a fine artist and he's like
look I can draw of course it's all
pixelated and like bit Mappy because
look I could draw lines in here and he's
a like if I could show you his Art
Studio his work is just gorgeous so he's
definitely a fine artist and he's like I
think this is a business I think this
could be a business and I'm very
pregnant we were talking about that
earlier I am very pregnant with my son
and I'm like dude you're gonna go get
yourself a real job you know I don't
want you playing around with this little
mac thing he begged me like twice in our
marriage he like literally has gotten on
his knees and to try to get me to see
his perspective begged me he's like just
read a Mac World magazine just read it
through once and if you still don't
think this could become a thing because
I was working on a Mainframe I'm like I
work on a real computer so what happened
was I made some phone calls I called
NASA and I called tandem which is now HP
and I called apple and we won contracts
at all three brands at the same time and
back then our company was called Duarte
desktop publishing and graphic design oh
wow I know I know right and and we
slipped in like when you talk about a
product life cycle very early like
everything was still bit Mappy was not
attractive you know most people as users
didn't know how to type set didn't know
how to do columns didn't know how to
make in this tool at all and there's
about an 18-month window in the life
cycle of the Macintosh where graphic
designers refused to use it refused it's
a toy
ugly it's bitmabbed nobody would do a
font like that we use Lino type like it
was very the snobby kind of we won't
touch it and that's right when we
entered like right then went and checked
out books at the library on type setting
we tried to figure out what we could do
how we could you know what could we do
with this tool and then the rest was was
kind of history and so that's how it
started and and the timing and just kind
of pushing the tool that nobody was that
interested in that were in the design
community of a small adoption that's
interesting that it was like old emails
basically are called reach out just like
hey we want to work with you yeah that's
an awesome calling cold calling yeah
okay what what did you take away from
that experience that kind of informed
what works and doesn't work in
presentations presentations used to be
35 millimeter slides in an old Carousel
in fact that's what Al Gore had when he
showed I was like here's my slide
Carousel from the 70s like it was just
how it was done but Apple was the first
company to hook up up the computer to a
projector at scale now the projectors at
these big venues like San Jose
Convention Center I mean it was huge and
it was risky so because we were kind of
we were first in they pushed us to start
to do the presentations in this tool and
it was black and white like everything
was black and white when we first
started and then we started to push and
push and push from how we Illustrated
things in the tool how we would colorize
clip art I mean I'm talking like clipart
packages just came out they're like hey
grab these colorize them and and so it
was a really uh momentous moment to win
them as an account and I remember the
tool had started to really take off and
it was ugly you can call it fugly I
don't know what you want to call it but
everyone who made slides did it so
poorly just so poorly and we were kind
of pushing the boundaries of it to make
it look attractive and there was a sales
conference in 1992 in San Francisco and
the leader of sales at the time was kind
of a creative Savant of sorts and I
remember he's like I don't know how
you're gonna do it but I want you to
take the whole slide like this is when
slides were basically teleprompted
covered in text if you could stick a
piece of clip art on it you were lucky
and he said I want I want you to just
make the whole slide it's just covered
with the word big in hot pink and I want
the background black because when this
slide pops up in all pink big I want it
to actually light the faces of the
people in the audience and it was like I
didn't know how to like we couldn't do
that we had to go into freehand convert
it to this do this do these six steps
and then we came up with a small jpeg at
the time or ping or something and we
scaled it up so it was still kind of
pixelated and I remember I was in that
Hall during the rehearsal and the
production team gasped a couple people
squealed they're like who did this how
did what is I mean it was just the word
big in magenta pink and and I just
remember thinking this is how it's
supposed to be done like the putting the
tool in the hands of the masses kind of
destroyed the medium itself and I feel
like the first 10 or so years I was in
business it was reshaping this medium
that ran a muck when it got into the
hands of the users it just went
completely the opposite way that it was
supposed to so that it's weird to say
that was a real difference moment for me
to say wait wait we can do this
different and we can return to how they
used to be done when they were 35
millimeter slides so that's one story
and then and then I think we're very
good at mapping to the brand the brand
requirements so we take this tool
whatever the tool we have all the brand
all our brands use different ones they
use slides keynote uh they use
PowerPoint like we use whatever tool the
brand wants and we push it in each
medium and but we we take their brand
guidelines and really push it into the
spoken word medium where when they stand
up on a stage it's cinematic like the
visuals can become an experience it in
itself
and I just I remember when Apple came up
with the think different campaign Steve
Jobs was just back and my designer
everyone you know Photoshop was new and
everyone's doing these beveled
backgrounds with tons of crap on the
background like it you know and I walk
by I'm like no oh we can't have a blue
frame looking photo frame to for the
think different campaign it's not going
to work and so I just I remember looking
at all the posters
and remembering the Alfred Hitchcock
ones that had his particulates like
these particulates and it was just
shadows and I found a stock video that
adobe had made at the time and it was
just particulates floating through the
air at the angle and we stuck the six
color apple on top of it that was so
revolutionary back there to push the
brand and get out of the way every the
whole world was making these hideous
templates so there's these moments that
pushed the company forward because of an
idea that I knew would not be okay for
the Apple brand therefore it shouldn't
be okay for any brand and I think I
think those are just a couple's stories
of how
how to really push the medium in a way
that is more pleasing to the audience
like the audience just likes it better
when it's really clear what you're
supposed to focus on we love that brand
we love it okay so let's get a little
tactical because you're talking about
some very specific things that you've
found to be working so everyone
listening to this podcast has probably
heard many times it's really important
to be great at presentations that
there's so much power in storytelling
and communication all these things and
they probably read a bunch of books and
blog posts and watched videos of like
how to give a great presentation uh but
myself and I feel like most people sit
down at a deck when they are about to
present
two in all hands say a week later or are
you going to do a meeting and I'm always
just like what okay what do I do if
let's okay there's like a beginning
middle end they should have some kind of
problem and it's always like I don't
know what I'm doing so
if someone were to just be listening to
this podcast and they're like I'm gonna
write a Post-It to myself of three
bullet points of things that I should
remember when I'm starting a deck what
would those three bullet points your
audience is the hero that was in my TED
Talk from 2011 I would say it's Infuse
your talk with story and I would say it
is asking yourself can they see what I'm
saying
those would be the three tips
other than starting with empathy I mean
that that's well audience is the hero is
the empathy-centric approach but let's
dive into these then so and I was
actually going to ask around empathy and
it feels like that comes up a lot in
your in your recommendations to people's
empathy is kind of the heart of your
methodology of telling great stories
telling great presentations so it's been
a little time there why why is that so
important and what does that actually
look like in practice empathy is
important to Duarte everything we do is
empathy first and some of it comes from
my own childhood story a little bit I
was raised by a clinically narcissistic
mom and narcissists are missing the
empathy Gene so I feel like that void of
not having it modeled for me is why I
keep clawing at empathy as being
important and I think a lot of people
listening might work for a boss that
does not have empathy that isn't other
Centric that doesn't think before they
talk and all of those things and I was
raised by someone like that and so every
single book and every single model that
I ever make has empathy at the core or
because you have to have to have to
think about who am I speaking with
specially in communication who am I
speaking with and so when I went on my
journey through storytelling I figured
out that I thought okay the presenter's
the hero for sure the presenter is the
hero they're the central figure they're
talking the most they're well lit
they're up on a stage so when I started
to look at all the archetypes that's
where I landed and then I was like oh my
God you know when I got to really
digging into the mentor I realized it's
really The Mentor in myths and movies
that's the presenter and who really
holds the power in the room of a
presentation is the audience like the
audience gets to make a choice if they
accept or reject your idea so the the
balance of power is with them and not
you so it really is the role of the
presenter to be the mentor and in myths
and movies The MENTOR comes alongside
the hero in other words the presenter
should come alongside the audience and
help them get unstuck or bring a magical
tool so like I think Obi-Wan Kenobi is a
great example he did two things for Luke
Skywalker he gave them a lightsaber
which was for his outer Journey the
physical Journey he was doing now and
then an inner tool which was the resolve
which came to him through the force so
when you're speaking to an audience
they're going to have an internal
conflict that you have to give them
something to soothe and then you're
asking them to therefore go and do this
thing take this action do this call to
action that's asking them to physically
do something or physically change in
some way so they're not going to do that
for you if you have an empathetically
thought about how hard what you're
asking them is going to be for them to
do and so it just you have to change
your mindset when you're starting to
build your deck to think about
who am I talking to how am I going to
help them get unstuck and that's that's
just a super foundational principle in
everything we do what is an example that
in practice as we go through these
because this is really great
um of that uh implemented like that we
know about maybe yours oh that we know
about so I could talk about our own
internal ones most of most of what we do
is under msas because they're
Fantastical Brands so in our in my own
company we before I do a presentation
that's going to require goals or them
reaching goals or we do an annual Vision
talk we do a listening tour first so
some of it's based in survey some of
it's based in interviews and we feed
that information up and then we compare
it to what we're going to ask them to do
and we do some Gap analysis like we
literally there's some uh actual
questions you can ask yourself which are
somewhat classic design thinking kind of
questions about where they're at and
then what we do is I create a real rough
cut or the exact team creates a real
rough cut and then we invite the next
level of leaders in and we do a fake I
mean the slides are ugly like we don't
spend time on the slides this is about
the message and maybe a model or two or
three that we're going to go through to
feel like it may amplify or make the
message more concrete and then they get
feedback and that's when the it's hard
it's hard to go from like rough cut
here's what we're going to say to making
it absolutely resonate and then and then
we deliver it after all of that work has
been done then we share it to the
company so we go through that knowing
that's the hardest presentation I
deliver all year like I used to travel
and speak and be a public speaker but
it's my own internal ones I have to take
more time with so when I travel and
speak they're like oh my God I love your
models oh my gosh can I can get a
picture with you right but when I'm
standing in front of my own team they're
like I wonder what she's going to say
because she's about to either make my
job harder or she's going to change my
priorities right there they come in more
skeptical and we we definitely have
nailed the annual kickoff meeting
definitely have nailed that and then we
do quarterly
quarterly updates to that annual kickoff
meeting and it's a Cadence and people
get enthused and and we're kind of
killing it right now yeah that's what it
feels like from the outside I'm just
thinking about uh the pressure to create
presentations within Duarte design yeah
uh if it's like if you think about your
job as hard uh creating a deck for your
company yeah presentations in front of
presentation experts is like oh my God
and I get nervous like I get really
nervous because I have one slide that's
kind of flawed or I say um or I Pace too
much you lose a third of your team each
time you know they're such experts so
it's hard I want to walk through these
three bullet points so the first is make
the listener the hero of your story and
that comes from being empathetic and
understanding their challenge so if
you're trying to do that what are like
signs that you're doing it well or not
well like is there like the way the flow
of the story start is it like here's the
way it starts or like what should people
identify like I'm doing this well or I'm
not doing this well if the audience is
the hero you would see visible signs
that they get it people would come like
before I did a really good talk and
people were tweeting saying hey come to
this talk it's really good so there's
you'd see a reaction you know you've
done it well uh if you're infusing your
talk with story which is the second
Bullet by utilizing story structures so
when I say storytelling I'm talking
about an anecdote when I say story
structures I'm talking about this format
of a of a three-act structure of
Storytelling that goes back tens of
thousands of years which is fused into
the brain like fmri machines now you can
see them while a story is being told and
the science is beautiful like if you're
telling me a story and I'm listening our
brains are firing in the exact same
order in the exact same place so it has
power to align our brains and so by by
implementing attributes of story like a
beginning a middle and an end and we
have a method for that and then and also
incorporating the rise and fall like the
story kind of builds tension and
releases it and that's why we love it so
much as we escape through kind of
someone else's messy metal and conflict
and problems like it's messy and then it
resolves like you build the tension and
resolve it and that's what a really well
structured presentation can do it can
can pull on that rise and fall in a way
that creates longing so story story
creates longing it it helps people long
for something they'd never wanted before
because if the future is told in the
shape of a story and they see this
alternate future like so many people
escape through sci-fi they escape
through movie making into these future
worlds right and so picture that you
could verbally paint a picture of this
future State and then you could bring
your whole audience to this future state
in an amazing way using this kind of
this Cadence of Rise and Fall that's how
you that's how you can incorporate story
into a presentation where you need to
influence others it's it's actually
really can be beautiful when it's done
well and so you gave a tedx talk on this
exact topic and so I want to go deeper
here and you kind of share this very um
visual way of thinking about a great
story where it kind of goes up and down
and up and down like these teeth uh
almost I can actually talk about
yeah it does can you um share with that
structure visually looks like and we'll
share a link in the show notes of what
that actually looks like and then just
why that is so value so impactful and
important yeah I love that I so I went
on a three-year journey through story
and I knew that the greatest speeches
over all time did have that rise and
fall and rise and fall but it wasn't one
single story it it had a whole lot of
other very important information but it
still did this rise and fall and Rise
and Fall so I am not a digital native I
took a quarter inch graph paper and I
would listen to all kinds of map out
took the words when I analyzed Steve
Jobs's iPhone launch speech I did it all
by hand I wrote every word I did I did
quarter inch graph paper I needed to
know I needed to see it the way I work
which was analog and so at first it was
zigzaggy and I realized wait you can't
you can't you can't map something over
time and have it be a zigzag zigzag
there was too much data loss so to
verbally describe it you could picture a
line at the bottom of your screen and
that line uh going left to right is what
is and you need to set up every talk by
stating what is and then it moves
straight up and you move to what could
be come back down uh to the bottom line
again say what is back up what could be
what is what could be what is what could
be and then the last one could be you
state the last horizontal line is what
we call the new Bliss so this motion of
traversing between what is what could be
what is what could be what is what could
be that sense of longing for the future
it makes people leave their current
state or the status quo or or our
current reality and makes them long for
this future state by using contrast so
that rise and fall of hey here's our
current problem here is a solution or
here's the State of the Union but we
imagine it could look like this like
there's so many different ways to build
that Cadence of of contrast that's so
lovely and it it I mean it really works
I I think the top came out in 2011 and
and the amounts of notes and emails of
things people have accomplished by
changing the structure of their
presentation has been really astounding
the state of the union is a really
interesting example because I'm trying
to imagine this in uh presentations I've
seen and that totally resonates of just
like here's the problem we're having and
here's where we're gonna go here's
another problem we're having here's what
I'm going to change Dave Jones was great
at that like when he launched the iPhone
speech like he always did like here's
the state of the company here's how
we're doing oh my God our stores are
more full than 10 Mac World Expos you
know you always did a setup of of what
was going on and then he did a really
rapid what is what could be when he
started to compare the iPhone to like
the Blackberry you know it's like look
how much it sucks now that you've seen
what we're doing like it's just as what
is what could be what is what could be
and so I took all the classic speeches
historical speeches uh everything
presidential speeches and knew that if I
could I could find a pattern in Dr King
and Steve Jobs's iPhone launch speech
that was the same that had the same type
of nature of cadence and pulsing to it
for lack of a better word that I knew I
I had solved it using story it was it
was a really great moment to to finally
draw that out on my quarter inch graph
paper
I love that it was awesome
I feel like there's just so much
opportunity for primary research like
that still like I feel like that's why
my newsletter does well is I just spend
the time doing that work that you're
describing and watching a thousand
interviews and then just distilling
here's a takeaway here and so um pattern
finding that's an interesting point I I
worry sometimes you know with the
emergence of new technologies and stuff
the ability to be able to sit and think
synthesize and all of that is because
you don't you a human's going to come up
with different insights and synthesis
than any future machine can do so I
think it's fascinating that that you do
that so well and it really shows that
wow yeah yeah you're really putting your
mind and heart into it all enough about
me
um I'm thinking about but I appreciate
it I'm thinking about product managers
and Founders maybe listening to this and
they're like oh man every time I do a
deck I need to create this whole story
and this up and down thing in your
experience when do you go that far to
create like is this when you have like
an epic important presentation you think
about a story structure like this or is
there always a way you should do kind of
you know put this into your
presentations of like some kind of story
with this contrast
interesting question and I I think a lot
of people think that the only time you
really need to present well is when you
have a big stage talk and you make the
big investment in the script the big
investment in the contrasting story
but I'll tell you a dirty little secret
I can get my husband to do chores for me
on the weekends with a quick with a real
quick what is what could be new Bliss
kind of just that first bit like what is
what could be new Bliss it's like even
uh the very very short short talk that
Abraham Lincoln gave in the Gettysburg
address those it was basically a funeral
it was a eulogy and back then
eulogies used to be two hours long it
was an Aristotelian structure and he
only had a couple hundred words so
there's no pictures of him giving it
because it was so short so tight and
done they they were setting up the
cameras still thinking they had tons of
time so the ability to just have that
contrast as a framework in your brain
during a meeting on a phone call any
moment of influence and getting the
husband to do some chores for me like it
literally it works it works in any
format and I think the investment that
you make in the longer form or when it's
a huge audience you know you add the
visuals you really hire the speaker
coaches you really make that moment
there's these moments that breach above
all other moments where you really have
to nail it just in basic conversations
in a moment of influence you should if
if you practice it enough it'll live in
your head as a mental model for when you
know you're in a situation where
where there's influence in the air that
you could do what is uh how do you
actually do it with your husband if you
could share for helping him well I won't
get graphic about what the new Bliss
might be
but you know early in our marriage we
figured out that when we not early I
actually spent almost only the last 10
years we've been married for 40. and and
we realized that when we tangle it's
it's usually only about process so the
gaps are when I if I ask or he asked me
to do something or we start to kind of
pick on each other it's because the way
I'm executing something is different
than the way he chose to execute it and
so it'll be anything from like why are
you chopping he'll you know why are you
chopping onions like that he'll say to
me and now I'm like oh we have a process
Gap you want to chop the onions or do
you want me to chop them my way you know
and so for the what is what could be a
new Bliss it happens all the time so he
needs a lot of context he's a
detail-oriented person and I've started
to learn with him that my what is needs
to be quite a bit longer than sometimes
I have patience for as I start to frame
oh hey baby could you take the dog over
to the I need you to take the dog over
to the dog care I don't start there I
start with oh my gosh tomorrow I've got
back to back back meetings in fact I'm
gonna be on Lenny's podcast right about
here and that's when she's whiny and
what's going to happen is if that
doesn't happen I'm gonna have to
reschedule next week and next week is
just load it up and I you know how it is
when I'm stressed out at the end of the
day and it's really I'm kind of hard to
deal with you know and I'm saying well
what could be you know what the doggy
place you know she was loved it last
time she was spooning with a red
Cavalier King Spaniel and loved it you
know it's like that I have to unpack it
a little bit more for him and then the
new Bliss could be any sort of marital
promise you want it to be but I just
have to unpack the current state a
little bit of the process and then I
State what could be and it's funny
because
acts of service like that like him
taking the dog to the Doggy Daycare for
me or is uh us like I feel loved so when
someone does something generous with
their time for me it's how I feel loved
and so there's a whole lot there in
shaping how you communicate with someone
empathetically at my company everyone
knows each other's love language like
they know that this person feels more
appreciated when they get a written note
this person feels more appreciated when
they get a gift and and everyone knows
that so that's just baked into our
our marriage our company just how it
rolls I imagine people listening to this
podcast we're not expecting marriage
advice and so I love that you can scrap
that if it doesn't work the process tip
that was good it's gonna be the best
part this is going to be the whole
podcast is just a second just joking but
this is this is really good advice I'm
gonna try to use it myself so the
structure is I think it's even easier to
think about this less as like story
infused story like for me it's more this
what is what could be what is the ideal
Bliss like that's almost a simpler way
to think about it the story is this like
oh my God I gotta think of a story it
has a beginning middle and an end so the
first what is is the beginning the the
middle is the messy middle that's where
you're trying to contrast and show them
that it's messy it might be hard it's
worth it and then the new Bliss you end
with what you know in Western cultures
where is like a happy ending so the new
Bliss is just imagine a world with your
idea adopted just and then you paint a
picture of that world poetically or
pragmatically and it works it definitely
works okay this is really great right so
just to recap
point one is to make your listener the
hero of the story and come at it with
empathy and I was actually thinking the
thing different campaign is an excellent
example that because it's about you
thinking differently and being this
incredible exactly creative okay
and then item two is Infuse your
presentation with story and this what is
what could be you Bliss and then okay
and number three what was number three
again oh it was ask yourself if they can
see what you're saying can they see what
I'm saying would be what would be
written on the note I love this okay
let's talk about that what does that
mean and how do you do it yeah so for
people to see what you're saying that
you have an opportunity to use visual
tools like the presentation software you
have opportunities to have live
Sketchers sketch it while you're talking
there's so many ways you can help people
see what you're saying I would contend
that you you can use something in your
talk that gives people something they'll
always remember we call that a star
moment and it could be a piece of
dramatic data where the big numbers put
up there it could be a an evocative
story it could be a beautiful picture
and one of the things that happens
really well especially with tech
companies is demonstrating through a
picture so you can get alignment so the
concept of a diagram like when when you
describe your product that you're
working on is this thing inside of it
outside of it attached to it is it on it
is above it like especially architecture
slides or or just how technology works
as something flows through a complex
system when people can see that and it
accompanies your verbal narrative that
you can actually understand what you're
conveying and and move on if you only
had a verbal narrative it wouldn't work
as well there's a lot of times though
where you don't have the support of a
presentation or slides you could be at a
dinner table
if you're in an interesting conversation
and you want someone to see what you're
saying that's where you pull out the
napkin and you draw it so you could both
see it in meetings sometimes someone
will just walk right up to the board and
draw something and my team especially my
design team is so good at this because
they'll just stand up and say I want to
I want to draw for you what I see
because we're about to prepare them to
present to an audience when you verbally
said that I saw this was that your
intent and then then the room will stand
up and we'll start all co-creating a
graphic so that everyone sees the exact
same thing the exact same steps the
exact same insights in the order so
nobody leaves with a question in their
mind and that's just so important for
there to be an alignment around
what what is this what are we all
fighting for what do we all living for
what are we all working for and those
moments of alignment are so so important
and I'm I'm a leader who sees things in
the air I just see it and to me my
pattern finding nature which you're like
that too right I can see these patterns
and to me I see a whole scene and I
could see it all clearly but when my
team's trying to look at the same thing
they might see 22 Mosaic tiles out of a
massive Mosaic beautiful
picture I see the final beautiful
picture but I've only served up a you
know a little tiny mosaic tile you know
in a few places and so I even have to be
better about really bringing it to Earth
and saying oh here's the seven steps to
get to this amazing outcome sometimes we
see things so plainly in our Mind's Eye
and I was working with a really famous a
powerful CEO and as she was talking it's
like I could see her I was watching her
hand motions too and she was like in
this thing and this and like she's
moving her arms around in in a distinct
way and I said I can tell you you have a
picture in your mind's eye let me draw
for what I and I did the same thing
walked up Drew had this had this at this
and and she's like exactly and and we
were brought in because nobody could
articulate at all what she saw in her
Mind's Eye and so that was a massive
program to be to be rolled out to the
entire retail it was like 100 000 retail
workers needed to understand this
graphic and and and the whole process
she was trying to roll out wasn't
getting traction so the minute people
could see what she was saying then it
had all the breakthroughs that needed to
happen around that program
that reminds me of uh when I was working
on the super host program at Airbnb I
don't know if the story will be of any
interest to anyone but I just remember I
had this very clear handset of motions
that described the strategy of the super
host program and then my friends like
you should you should draw this on a
slide yeah unless it's such a powerful
hand gesture right you could do that
because your body is Visual and the
other thing we try to get our customers
to do is like if Dr King had slides that
day of the I Have a Dream speech it just
would have been as beautiful like his
words painted the pictures in our Mind's
Eye and so when we can have the slides
off so people are focused on the verbal
stream and what's coming out of your
mouth that is such a powerful moment is
to not have any visuals supporting you
so they're 100 focused on your on your
body how you're showing up and on the
words coming out of your mouth is and
they're verbally seeing what you're
saying versus actually pictorially
saying what you're saying is
it's good I like the idea that people
are not staring at me and I prefer them
distracted with a slide but uh but I
want to talk about like nerves and stuff
presenting in a bit Yeah but uh that's
interesting so you're talking about very
kind of some concrete tips for slides
and something I've heard a lot is when
you're sharing a deck internally or
talking like an internal meeting it's
really powerful to just have
uh obviously just like a quick image
thing but then also the title of the
slide is the point you want them to get
from that slide is that some of you
recommend and then generally any just
like very tactical advice on how to make
a slide yeah the the concept that each
slide should make one point so your your
whole presentation should be grounded in
what we call the audience Journey which
is the big idea where you're trying to
move them from where you're trying to
move them to and then a big idea is
what is your point of view and what's at
stake if they do or do not adopt it
that's the organizing mechanism for your
whole deck and then each slide itself
that supports that one big big idea each
slide itself should make one point in
support of that big idea people can't
process too many things at one time so
depending on where you work some people
want something that's not the key
Insight at the top of the slide some
people do so some might want the action
to be taken or some might want the
dreamy future state to be clear a lot of
some consulting firms where the slides
are much denser because they were paid
millions of dollars to make a big old
deck you know some of them are like oh
it always belongs in the lower right
corner it always belongs so it's kind of
a little bit up to the brand and
everyone believes it belongs somewhere
else if you're making what we call a
slide dock which I think your
listenership is interest would be
interested in presentations go from a
big staged event to like in a meeting
where where you're trying to persuade
your peers too can I make a presentation
I can just circulate on email and
everyone gets it well that's called a
slide doc you put more words you put
stronger pictures you could have a
hundred page appendix and maybe the
front of it's only five slides but
everything they need to see your
thinking it follows behind it and you
could circulate those and people read it
you write full sentences you write full
prose it's kind of like the six page
memo that's so popular to Amazon but we
contend the DF words and pictures the
six page memo is better so how do you
send a memo around without the help of a
presenter and that's on one extreme and
those are called slide docs that you
build in presentation software and then
the other extreme is I'm on a massive
stage somewhere and there's all kinds of
usage in between and so I think the one
idea per slide is important and then
this guiding principle like don't make a
single slide unless it supports the one
big idea of your whole talk that's
another principle for sly making because
most people go back to like some sort of
repository in some data store somewhere
and they dig through old crappy slides
and see if they can assemble something
super quickly and that's a cop-out like
some most of the time if you really
think empathetically about your audience
the going to the repository might get
you halfway there but you should be
modifying and mapping all of the content
based on who you're talking to and
especially if it's high stakes and
sometimes you're speaking to an audience
that wants high density slides because
that's how they communicate in their
culture and if you showed up with
cinematic stage ready slides they'd
laugh you out of the room and so you
just really got it I mean you gotta know
your audience you got to know how they
communicate who they talk to and and map
to that
this episode is brought to you by EPO
EPO is a Next Generation a b testing
platform built by Airbnb alums for
modern growth teams companies like
DraftKings zapier click up twitch and
Cameo rely on EPO to power their
experiments wherever you work running
experiments is increasingly essential
but there are no commercial tools that
integrate with a modern grow team stack
this leads to wasted time building
internal tools or trying to run your own
experiments through a clunky marketing
tool when I was at Airbnb one of the
things that I loved most about working
there was our experimentation platform
where I was able to slice and dice data
by device types country user stage EPO
does all that and more delivering
results quickly avoiding annoying
prolonged analytic cycles and helping
you easily get to the root cause of any
issue you discover EPO lets you go
beyond basic click through metrics and
instead use your North Star metrics like
activation retention subscription and
payments EPO supports tests on the front
end on the back end email marketing even
machine learning plans check out people
at get eppo.com that's getepo.com and
10x your experiment velocity
what's your take on the Minto pyramid
principle I don't know if you think
about that okay yeah because yeah
because there's a recommendation of just
like start with the conclusion and then
explain why and you're saying sometimes
that's effective sometimes not maybe in
yeah and then sometimes it's effective
so the mental principle is amazing like
she's got the uh was it horizontal and
vertical thinking so your main Segways
are your main section heads should add
up and then all the slides should
support it and then also uh how the
construct of it is and when you're when
when you state
the conclusion first that's a great
thing to do with execs it's a great
thing to do when you are fundraising
it's a certain type of an audience that
that works for there's other audiences
where they really need to be taught to
long for this future State and you need
longer to unpack it so one of the
reasons you would start with the
conclusion is especially in a funding
round now my version of a conclusion or
result or is different than how she
describes it because I would say you
start with the new Bliss so if you're
trying to raise funds you would say I'm
gonna share you some share with you
something today that and you share how
your solution
increases human flourishing like it
needs to be tied to the humanness and
the big problem you're going to solve
and how human solving how humankind will
benefit well that's different than just
like a consultant would show up and say
hi I have this 800 page deck and the
results of it are this let's unpack it
it's just a completely different motion
and we use a three-act story structure
uh that's quite a bit different too
but that work is solid and it was based
kind of like my work her her work was
based in going super deep in mckinsey's
thinking over time whereas my work is
going laterally across the 35 highest
performing brands in the world that have
been our customers so I went laterally
across all those Brands and then and
then come up with solutions that are
based or in story and are based in a
broader a bit of a broader application
across companies but I have tons of
respect for that body of work awesome
and we'll link to uh I wrote a post
about this whole concept for because I
want to dig deeper maybe one more
question around tactical slide stuff and
I know this is like people ask you about
this stuff all the time but I can't help
it I guess just any other tips for just
like you're sitting there trying to
create a couple slides like what else
maybe people should keep in mind to make
it effective and let's say this is for
like a small meeting yeah that's a good
question I think that if do some
thinking first if it if it's important
like if it's an important point of the
meeting my team is taught to just kind
of sketch change your environment up a
little bit a lot of people will fire up
the deck which is very linear it's like
make one slide second slide third side
so just think and plan for a minute and
we tend to draw like storyboards it's
like okay the first point the second
point the third point or the you know
just think first it could be analog or
digital like put a page in front of all
your decks it's just boxes just just get
the narrative right and then when you
actually open up the software that's
where you have to think about what are
this what's the slide type that will
convey this the most is it a table put
it table especially for program managers
you have to convey dense project
information program information product
information and that comes with density
so if you're in a room with your peers
and everyone in the room is a team and
everyone has their own shorthand and way
of working put that common slide up
there that common slide for that team
might be dense to the outside world but
but everyone's used to using it so
there's no harm in using a commonly
known commonly acceptable framework or
slide or table or Excel spreadsheet
because you're aligning around a process
and so don't feel like every single
meeting needs like cinematic pictures of
kittens because that's not going to get
you anywhere you're trying to move an
objective along and that does mean that
your slides might be more dense and
sometimes internal slides have a lot
more important information that needs to
be on it to kick a product along or kick
a process along you're just talking
about process and that is a great segue
to a question I wanted to ask is just
what is your what does your process look
like when you're working with a company
to help them craft an awesome
presentation yeah yeah it's funny
because I I don't have to do this much
anymore I haven't done I haven't done it
for about 15 years which is nice I have
a gorgeous team of strategist writers
conceptual thinkers beautiful coaches
it's a yeah I know I get I get coached I
get it's fun I I definitely my books
look awesome not because of me but
because I'm followed around by people
that are do really gorgeous work but you
know the the phrase that we use
internally and sometimes with customers
is uh we we make presentations the way
Pixar makes movies and that's very
similar to the way we get somebody that
has this high stakes moment where it's
it's a big deal in this moment you have
to win in the moment to push things
along and so we do like we literally
craft a narrative craft the big idea
craft the script and visualize certain
moments we start to map it out we start
to chunk it out and then we big models
sometimes when you're really making a
revolutionary model one that could drive
all the web assets a lot of that stuff
people don't realize actually happens in
the presentation first as an idea so
sometimes we'll start working on some of
the key model right away too and we
start to circulate that around the
company because every everyone has to
build consensus around it so sometimes
there's multiple motions happening at
the same time like let's sketch this you
go away you work with this department
you try to get this settled you get that
set you get this you know and so and
then it gets reassembled yeah at the end
and then the narrative is where you work
all the Kinks out and then when they
Stand and Deliver it's like
that yes the it's the voice track that
all the all that process supported and
then other times we're building a report
in a slide dock or uh there was a time
where we had a multinational head of a
multinational company that will remain
nameless and and the guy that was head
of all of India was going to come over
here and petition the CEO for 100
million dollar 100 million dollar budget
it's not trivial
and he comes it's like okay I need your
help with these five slides and he just
sends us the five slides and we're like
well yeah 100 million that's kind of a
lot you really want to put technology
between you and the CEO do you really
want to sit side by side and both be
looking at a computer in this moment
where it's like you're petitioning them
for
that's a lot of money
and he's like yeah you're right so what
we did is we made a mental model he
could hold up in his head and the
structure was so simple and clear and
then there was three moments where we're
like just I don't know just grab a piece
of paper or go to a whiteboard and just
start to draw in front of him let him
see your eyes let them have eye contact
let me see your passion like don't be
dispassionately looking at this computer
and he did it and he called us and he's
like I got 100 million bucks you know so
it's just those moments that there's
just those moments where you have to
realize wait wait wait do I need a deck
who am I talking to and should I should
I is this a cookie cutter thing and is
the same process work every time no so
every time we solve something it's very
different and we try to make it unique
to the presenter and the audience that
they're speaking to
along the same lines a lot of
presentations now are actually remote
and on Zoom yeah and virtual what do you
recommend to people in terms of how they
present and put presentations together
being remote yeah it's funny we spent a
lot of time coaching people to look in
the camera so while I've been talking to
you I'm not actually looking at your
face I'm looking at the Little Dot at
the top of my screen and my camera and
not a lot of people can do that so it's
gotten to where I can see that little
white glowing dot in my heartwarms like
I know you're there I feel you I can say
I can get Sensations in my skin when
when I know I'm talking to someone
that's that that I adore or admire and
that took a long time uh to get there
and I was presenting remotely
pre-covered so a lot of our coaching was
about eye contact and doing but the
other thing that happens is people don't
see our hands anymore like they're under
the table they can't see much space in a
room we're taking up they can't they
can't see a lot of the characteristics
that are common in communicating and so
there's a lot of coaching around
presence and how do you have presence in
a room how do you even get the
microphone away from someone that's
remote all those kinds of things and a
new study just came out I just came
across my desk today and it said that
soft skills really suffered and the
people who did it right say and looked
at the camera they don't have good eye
contact skills anymore when they are
looking face to face in someone's eyes
it's like oh they're they're not used to
it it's been so long and then the other
thing is you know how where do I sit in
a room who's got the position of
authority like just kind of some classic
things that convey information in real
life that so it's interesting it peaked
and now people are going back to the
office some a percent are back in the
office and now we have this weird place
where it's I was half in the office and
half people are remote and the people
that are remote are having a hard time
hearing getting their voice is heard
because the people in the room consume
most of the air so it's kind of going
through this
undulating life cycle of new
communication skills people need while
while they're remote
it's all changing
I'm glad that uh I was not a PM in this
remote world to be honest I I never
experienced it so and but I have a lot
of empathy for being a product manager
and yeah in this world remote work World
feels like the job got a lot harder it
did I think it did yeah so
let's talk about nerves and Stage right
so I hate public speaking I get
extremely nervous people maybe not feel
this when they watch me but yeah it's
not my natural state
uh you work with a lot of people that I
imagine are like oh my God I'm so scared
to give this presentation what advice do
you give them to help them through that
and feel more comfortable I
know who are more thoughtful and
contemplative
about speaking have better content like
they tend to really think through stuff
than someone who's like I got this I'll
just wing it I'll just walk on the stage
like anyone who's like it tells me I am
a nervous presenter I'm like you have
probably got gorgeous content in your
heart that the world needs to hear
because usually they are really deep and
thoughtful like you already mentioned
you're a pattern finder and you like to
do thoughtful work and so it's it's hard
like my my husband is actually brilliant
Communicator is just getting him to feel
like he wants to take up the space he's
um he's a better Communicator than I am
and so what happens is the reason you
get scared it's a fight or flight
Instinct for some reason stepping out on
that stage you feel your body and your
mind and your psyche is feeling
threatened like you would be attacked by
an animal like that's literally what's
happening and so you a couple things you
could do you can actually sit in one of
the seats of the uh of the auditorium
and just sit there and look at the stage
look at the settings so you can imagine
yourself on it but then picture yourself
as that friendly face the one that's
happy to see you the one that's
delighted that you're speaking and then
as you're standing up remember remember
that you saw yourself sitting there
smiling and very happy you have to
change your visual model that that
people's faces will be scowling they'll
be judging you they'll be doubting you
all of those things are only in your
head because getting you out on the
stage to be able to start to expose
people to this amazing content you have
the the biggest battle is to get you out
on the stage and and and
um
delivering it and those are my I asked a
bunch of people once I did like a survey
of all these public speakers and was
like how do you prepare how do you
prepare what's your pre-talk ritual and
some of them were like I play heavy
metal music and I skip around the entire
Convention Center just get all fired up
I'm like wow I have to calm myself down
because I already have over the top
energy so I literally find the dark I
don't go to the Green Room that stuff I
don't like to hear jibber jabber I have
to be focused on my content and so I
find the darkest corner of the backstage
and calmly sit and just breathe I just
breathe sometimes if I'm nervous like if
there's someone real famous in the
audience I have a little list a little
playlist of funny things that people
sent me but I never watch and that way
right before I walk on stage I
chemically my whole body chemically
shifts from nervous to laughter and that
really helps me too because it is a it's
chemical and you have to train your
Chemistry a bit oh I really like that
tip uh what are these funny things you
watch if you it's like YouTube things
Tick Tock thing like just things that I
tag and I try not to watch them or
things that make me laugh like there's
this dorky and low like low watched
video of a a guy with tin cans wrapped
around his waist and he plays him and my
husband walks around the house like like
him and making the noise and I could
probably sing the beat if I had and so
sometimes I just play that because I I
it just transports me home because a lot
of times I'm presenting away from home
and it just makes me laugh at my at my
husband who's hysterical and so it's
just random random things but if you
laugh and and somehow can transport
yourself outside of
the fear of walking out there it it
helps reset you before you walk out on
stage
I really like that is there anything
else just uh the diver head that just
like right before you go on stage that
you find to be really effective so
watching funny videos I love that it's
breathing music anything else oh some I
breathe I think I I've learned a
breathing pattern I take three I take a
deep deep breath and then I take that
one while on my lungs are full I take
another gulp of breath and I have to let
it out real slow but when I got the
feedback that my friend and some people
uh get over their fear by head banging
to heavy metal so I'm not saying that's
not the wrong thing so I thought well
maybe I should try that before I could
do a talk and so I literally uh didn't
do that but I stretched I bounce I
jumped a little just low jumps put my
arms real big up in the air and then I
walked on stage and I happened to be
speaking at a massive medical company
like Big Brand and I finished my talk
and and they my assistant got a call and
they were like we're a little worried
about Nancy we think she might not need
to see a doctor she could never control
her breathing and we're really concerned
and it was just because I just pumped
myself up a little bit and I so I don't
do that not whatsoever anymore I went
back to my calming contemplative
meditative uh pre-talk ritual so for
some people literally I do encourage
people to try head banging to heavy
metal it might work it's just a matter
of what you need and ever nobody would
guess that I'm not one
to to dance around or pump myself up I
am not I have to calm myself down it's
the opposite awesome just just a few
more questions sure so you wrote a book
called illuminate and something that
stood out to me from that book is this
idea of a torch Bearer and torch Bearer
leader can you just talk about what that
is and why that is important yeah I
loved writing that book a co-author
Patty Sanchez a hat tip to her so to
come up with this book we knew that
there's one presentation there's a
single presentation could be on a stage
could be in a meeting just updating
people on a project status and we knew
though that every presentation usually
is part of a larger movement where
you're trying to move people in Mass to
this alternate future so we studied
movements we
deconstructed the largest movements we
went met with Marshall Gans at Harvard
to say hey could this be true because he
studies movements it was so fun and then
the movements have a five act structure
so picture there's this moment where you
have to verbalize the dream like Hey
we're going to head to this new place
and and this is what I have to do at my
kickoff meetings it's like imagine this
place in the future that we're headed to
so you so it's five steps it's a
five-act story structure if you want to
call it five acts it's dream leap fight
climb arrive so the torch Bearer The
reason we called that is the leaders
know where they're headed but they might
not ever see it super super clearly and
we chose a torch because a torch if
you're in a cave and you have a torch
you only see about five eight feet
around you but it's enough to dissipate
the fear of the people following you in
and so nobody sees the future clearly
like nobody has that kind of level skill
all we know is I need to Traverse this
direction to be at the right place in
the future so all my staff is safe all
are we stay a leader in the industry
that's all I know and as we start to
head there there's these moments of
communication you need to do which is
hey everyone here's the dream here's
where it headed that's the dream phase
then there's this moment where they
either choose to jump in and go with you
or they choose not to you can talk about
Frodo like Sam and only a few Hobbits
followed him you know and so it's like
people select to commit to this journey
and that's the beginning of your
movement uh but then the middle is the
messy middle of a story it's we call it
the fight and climb phase so what
happens is they commit to your idea they
commit to your program your project and
they're like enthused at first and then
they go into the state of oh my God this
is harder than I thought it's a long
slog this client is getting exhausted I
don't know if I have this much fight in
me to make this all work not fight with
each other but like oh my God I'm having
to overcome this roadblock and that
roadblock and we have to go get that
budget so this is It's like a fight
climb fight claim fight climb and then
ultimately you arrive each one of those
five phases you need to use speeches
stories Sarah monies and symbols at each
phase to give the people traveling with
you the emotional fuel they need to keep
going to keep seeing that idea become
realized and it's it literally is about
fueling the right emotions the speech of
story ceremonies and symbols while
you're moving people toward a bigger
initiative so it's bigger than just one
presentation it's multiple presentations
multiple stories multiple ceremonies so
that's I loved that book it people are
really feeding off of it right now
because leading change has been what
Non-Stop
it's just been changed changed changed
the last special few years change is the
only constant like they say exactly I
really like this metaphor of the torch
giving you a sense of light as a leader
you can see some portion around you but
you're not going to see the entire cave
necessarily that is really interesting
maybe a final question very tactically
is that you give it an interview where
you share that you you had kind of two
videos one where it was very informal
you're just sitting standing in front of
whiteboard and like jeans or something
just like talking about some but data I
think in presentations and then you had
a similar video where it was very well
constructed high production value and
the informal video did a lot better
is that something you're seeing just
that kind of content ends up being more
successful and why do you think that is
I think video content production quality
Now isn't the the expectation for it
being high quality is just completely
shifted over the last five eight years
or so as Everyone's an expert and can
show up as an expert there's a big
difference to me about showing up as a
keynoter which is like I'm a Stan I'm
gonna look right I'm gonna have this eye
contact I'm gonna nail it my slides are
gorgeous I'm I'm driving the industry
and and for people to think that our
explanations of things needs to be done
as a Stand and Deliver keynote that's
just not true so I experimented with
that and I had some videos I had done
and uh one of them like you said was me
looking in the camera I even had HD
makeup a film crew I was well lit I
looked amazing I mean I did look amazing
and it was polished I delivered it
really well and then I thought that
because on LinkedIn I post a lot that's
where my primary channel is and I
thought what would happen if I just
posted a rando shot of me and I'm maybe
airing on a little bit like orange I
look a little trumpy and a little bit
orange not it's not color corrected but
it's super informative like really full
of information and that was my highest
viewed video so far and I realized that
it's like you know people want the
content and we do as a presentation
company I have to nail it maybe more
than others but it doesn't have to be
fully video edited infographics spinning
swooshy things forward and swooshing
things back like that kind of nature of
it was is not necessary to get the
message across and so we actually have a
whole process and programmer rolling out
where you're gonna see a lot more video
from us partially from that Insight but
partially because my team I have a team
of experts they have a lot of great
things to share and so I'm trying to
give them I'm trying to make it be like
Duarte does not equal Nancy door day I'm
trying to make it so it's like so many
experts work it towards you gotta watch
any video from any of them is where
we're moving it towards their their
freaks of Brilliance and just experts
they're world-class experts so that's
what we're trying to do I feel like you
have a similar challenge to me where I
named my newsletter Lenny's newsletter
yeah
same thing yeah anyone else it's a
challenge but yeah and it worked out
okay actually real final question before
we get to a very exciting lightning
round have you seen examples of product
managers specifically telling related
Stories the product management process
has multiple phase there's the creative
explorative process all the way through
to Getting It produced and I think this
story gets you can take you along in
each phase so there's example which I
read about I wasn't actually even part
of but Brian chesky at Airbnb there was
a whole article where we unpacked this
moment in their product development
cycle where they decided they would take
a walk in the shoes of their customer
and they hired a pick
illustrator to illustrate each scene as
the team's like okay okay they said this
is her name and they were like okay what
happens her alarm goes off okay what
happens next what happens next okay now
she's decided she needs to book
something what does she do she wants to
do that they realized from this little
walk in the shoes of their customer just
this day in the life which is a classic
storytelling method for any product
they realized that they had their
strategy wrong that they needed to move
as soon as possible to a mobile first
strategy and it was just because they
actually thought about okay well okay
she goes brushes their teeth they do
this they were just literally walking
through the life of their ideal customer
and that was when they realized they had
it all messed up but the other phases
like after all this work people put into
product and the making of the product
and the managing of pushing it through
with a large client that makes shoes or
athletic things
I love telling stories but I can't say
this yeah and there's there's this
moment right where we get brought in and
like could you please train our product
people and story like what's the big
problem they'll spend a year or two on a
shoe and be like chunk put it on the
table and they're like what do you have
to say about it like it's red
and and it's like all these years of
investment all these years they couldn't
unpack any sort of story or any sort of
reason or even their passion for why
they chose red you know it was like
here's my shoe it's red and and so this
ability to move things along by adding
meaning or why and then wrapping it in a
story actually can get a product chosen
or reject it or there's just so many
examples of different spaces in the
product cycle that could benefit from a
really well told story from like I said
how the products innovate in the roadmap
all the way through to you know what
gets accepted and then the big reveal
like you think about even all the Big
Apple launches it's about a big product
reveal it's about it's about revealing
this thing that had been hidden for so
long and it's another moment you know to
tell Amazing Stories so that's kind of a
little bit of an Insight on the product
side of how to use story
the Airbnb example is an awesome example
uh it's all true when I joined Airbnb is
actually right there right in the
process of doing that I love that and
they ended up drawing these keyframes of
the journey as you described and they
became they put it right in the center
of the office here's the Journey of a
host and a guest that's like 12 frames
of that journey and that actually became
the strategy of the company is let's
pick six of these frames and make them
awesome and that's what we're gonna do
that's awesome looking experience
awesome make the arrival experience
awesome so there's a lot of Truth to
that and that was visualized right the
vision was visualizing is here's what
we're headed in the future and it was
super clear I love that story yeah yeah
so cool you were there yeah it was very
cool and they actually were very mobile
you could like grab one of these
drawings and bring it to your desk and
like how are we gonna make this moment
better this is awesome yeah and um and
it was actually need to fix our
storyboard artists that they hired for
like a year that was his job draw these
keyframes oh and that's amazing and it
connects so directly with your point
about empathy like this is the epitome
of empathy hears with the guest and
hosts are going through and and here's
where we can do better yeah it's amazing
yeah it does tie together if um folks
want to look this up by the way we'll
look at Link in the show notes uh if you
just Google Snow White Airbnb you can
watch a video of how they all in a game
Above This
well with that we reached our very
exciting lightning round I've got six
questions for you if you're ready yep
I'm ready
what are two or three books that you
recommended most to other people I think
I always classically recommend the
gospels because there's just so much
love and groundbreaking thinking there
and then for people who do wind up
taking an interest in story I think one
of the best books if you want to pick
that up is um Chris vogler's The
Writer's Journey where he took Joseph
Campbell's Heroes Journey made it 12
steps and it was Disney he was a Disney
story analyst so it's it's just really
classic body of work that'll really
helped people get their minds around
story and the archetypes
what is a favorite recent movie or TV
show it's my little sinful pleasure it's
I'm way into kdrama Korean drama don't
even ask me how but I'm way into that
I've seen almost all of them now I'm at
the bottom of the barrel of them is
there a favorite I know we just my my
husband just lost one it's called
business proposal and he watched it with
me and he's like oh no now I'm going to
be hooked too it's they're just real
they're just cute as button and they
have a longer Arc though like an epic
length tail they drop in 12 part Seasons
like or one season 12 anyway don't even
get me started it sounds dumb because I
like the Epic Tales and The dramas but
what is a favorite interview question
that you like to ask people that you're
hiring
oh favorite interview question and we
ask a lot about
um
who they are so we use psychometrics a
lot here and we really understand who
they are and we actually ask people to
tell a story and if if that's
uncomfortable or the psychometrics are
uncomfortable it's they're not really a
fit because we are a systemic story
culture and uh we Define empathy at the
company as know yourself accept yourself
kind of work on yourself and then adapt
to others so if people aren't open to
really understanding how they show up
then they're and and then adapt and
change under our care then we don't hire
them
what is a favorite product you've
recently discovered that you love I'm
I'm excited about a tool I just paid for
last week it's called writer.com so it's
built on multiple language models and
including it's going to be trained on
our own like all my IP all my books
every blog post it'll learn the voice
and it'll use my own kind of language
model to help us write faster and so we
put really good prompts in and we get a
really good product out so I'm super
excited about that I'm actually an
investor in that company so this is
great to hear oh yeah that's awesome
writer.com yeah
what is something relatively minor
you've changed in your approach to
developing presentations that has had a
big impact on your ability to execute
and get them out yeah I think there's
the biggest roadblock for so long that
made things painful was to edit Cycles
how do we do around with a client then
you have multiple versions then you have
Version Control so we've come up with
this annotation system so everyone on a
project knows exactly the status of that
slide and there's no way related check
slides in and out and so we've come up
with this amazing beautiful very visual
process where everyone knows the exact
status of the site and it's really easy
like you could put it in thumbnail mode
and be like we're 80 complete everyone's
going to focus on just these two things
so that that part of the process
especially Enterprise at scale where 20
or 30 people are contributors to a deck
that that little process we made is
clients are really liking it
to leave people with one final tip to
give better presentations what would
that be to become a better presenter
pick a topic you are passionate about
something where you're like oh my gosh
I've got to see this happen I you know
and pick that topic and be so passionate
about it work on that talk or stand up
at a volunteer thing and really work on
something that makes you feel passionate
and then in the future when you're
presenting something that you're not
passionate about everything you learned
will come will will apply to a business
presentation but you're going to have
that feeling you're going to know what
it's like to present from your soul from
a place of passion and the great
presenters tap into that passion point
and pull from that and that's what makes
them a great presenter on other topics
as I might not be as passionate about
Nancy I so appreciate you making time
for this it's been an honor everything
you're amazing you're amazing two final
questions where can folks find you if
they'd like to reach out and how can
listeners be useful to you oh they can
find me at duarte.com there's also a
duarte.com Nancy where I've got a ton of
free stuff where you could find a lot of
the things I've talked about I'm on
Twitter at Nancy Duarte and I do connect
to everyone who connects me on LinkedIn
which is kind of fun so I I think uh how
could they be useful to me I think I
think it will cure so many problems if
everyone became a really good
communicator so you can help me by
working hard on your communication
skills working hard on your Clarity and
making everyone around you much happier
people
what a beautiful way to end it Nancy
again thank you so much for being here
oh you're amazing thanks for having me
we're amazing we'll send it we are let's
just say it
bye everyone
thank you so much for listening if you
found this valuable you can subscribe to
the show on Apple podcast Spotify or
your favorite podcast app also please
consider giving us a rating or leaving a
review as that really helps other
listeners find the podcast you can find
all past episodes or learn more about
the show at lennyspodcast.com
see you in the next episode